---
date: "9999-99-99"
title: "What should we read in 2022?"
type: Doc
---
# What should we read in 2022?

![Bitcoin Reading
Group](content/uploads/2022/01/ATLBitDevs_2022_ReadingGroup_Generic-1568x882.png)

We want input on which Bitcoin development books you would like to read and
discuss together in 2022. We've put together a list of potential books for
BitDevs and BitPlebs meetups. Some of the books are geared towards developers,
while others focus on economic aspects of Bitcoin

Note that several books on this list have been covered at past meetups,
however, we have many newer attendees who may not have read these books yet.

## Technical books for the devs

### Mastering Bitcoin

This is a must-read book for learning about the Bitcoin protocol. It covers
the structure of blocks, the structure of transactions, how to compile Bitcoin
Core, some of the cryptographic primitives employed in Bitcoin, and more.

### Programming Bitcoin

This book teaches you how to program your own Bitcoin library in Python. The
idea is that you will understand how Bitcoin works very deeply if you task
yourself with coding your own implementation.

### Mastering the Lightning Network

This is a must-read book for learning about the Lightning network protocol,
which a layer 2 protocol which allows for nearly instant Bitcoin payments.

### The Blocksize War

This is an account of the Blocksize War, which is basically the debate from
2015 - 2017 over increasing Bitcoin's blocksize. This is a fairly easy book to
read and will help you to understand the design decisions that were made in
developing the Bitcoin protocol.

### Working in Public

This book is not about Bitcoin specifically. Rather, it's about free open-
source software (FOSS), how it is maintained, and the communities that form
around the software. It's a relevant topic because the maintenance of FOSS is
critical to Bitcoin.

## Bitcoin books that are non-technical

### The Bitcoin Standard

A book about the history of money and impact that it has on society. Published
in 2018 and still the definitive work on why Bitcoin is the best money.

### The Fiat Standard

The recently published (November 2021) sequel to The Bitcoin Standard, this
book explores the impact that sovereign issued fiat money has had on the
economy within the past century and how it has contributed to a society based
upon debt slavery.

### The Bullish Case for Bitcoin

A quicker read than the above two works, this recently published book was
based upon the author's famous Medium article. It speaks to why an investor
should consider holding Bitcoin and can anticipate it to continue to increase
in value.

### 21 Lessons

What I've Learned by Falling Down the Bitcoin Rabbit Hole By Gigi. A profound
book about how understanding Bitcoin can change a person for the better. A
very quick read. This can probably be covered in 1-2 discussion sessions.

### The Sovereign Individual

A book about the future as seen from 1999. The authors correctly predict a
surprising and fascinating number of developments revolving around
decentralization and microprocessors, including the rise of a non-state money
like Bitcoin.

## Let us know what you're interested in

Technical books for the devs - Atlanta BitDevs

Select as many as you like

Mastering Bitcoin - Andreas Antonopoulos

Programming Bitcoin - Jimmy Song

Mastering the Lightning Network - Andreas Antonopoulos+

The Blocksize War - Jonathan Bier

Working in Public - Nadia Eghbal

Select All

Bitcoin Books that are Nontechnical - Atlanta BitPlebs

Select as many as you like

The Bitcoin Standard - Saifedean Ammous

The Fiat Standard - Saifedean Ammous

The Bullish Case for Bitcoin - Vijay Boyapati

21 Lessons - Gigi

The Sovereign Individual - Davidson & Rees-Mogg

Select All

Is there one you favor above all the rest?

NoneMastering BitcoinProgramming BitcoinMastering LightningThe Blocksize
WarsWorking in PublicThe Bitcoin StandardThe Fiat StandardThe Bullish Case for
Bitcoin21 LessonsThe Sovereign Individual

Any Bitcoin or development related books you would be interested in reading
that aren't on this list?

Your Email

Your Name

CAPTCHA

Published February 6, 2022By [Stephen DeLorme](author/stephen/index.html)

Categorized as [Reading Groups](category/reading-groups/index.html) Tagged
[bitcoin](tag/bitcoin/index.html), [lightning](tag/lightning/index.html),
[reading group](tag/reading-group/index.html)

#